All right, so now we're going to look a little more at some other things that we might be able to do
with this main class here.
So there's a question that is running through my mind and that question is this this block of code here?
Do I really need this here?
That's that's the question that's running through my mind.
And let me try to let you in on what's going through my head here as I'm kind of analyzing this code,
by the way.
So the act of writing code is an act of writing a bit of code and then doing some analysis on that code
to ask yourself, first off, is it doing what it's supposed to do?
And then is it?
Is there room for improvement and then making gradual improvements to the code, which is one step that
a lot of not so great developers seem to forget about?
And understandably, sometimes sometimes we're under the gun just to get something that works at all.
And it's hard to maybe take some time to actually make that code clean and maintainable and readable,
and all of that, which takes a lot of effort.
OK, so here's my thinking I need to kind of step back a little bit and ask myself, What is this class
doing over all this main class?
Not the whole program, but just this main class?
What are its real main responsibilities, right?
So we've got our data set here, which is a which is a big string, right?
And we want to pass it.
And the main thing we want to do.
I suppose, is to determine the salaries for each of these employees and add those all up and then print
that out.
That's the main thing we want to do, right?
So if you look at it from that super, super high level like, that's the main thing this class is trying
to do is just to say, hey, for for all of these people here, add up their salaries and then print
that out, if that's the main thing we're trying to do.
Then you have to ask yourself some more questions.
What code maybe doesn't belong here?
So for example, now that we have a generic superclass that we can use to refer to all of these classes
from within the main class?
And the only method on this super class that we really even care about or need to know about is the
get salary method.
Do we even need to really be knowing in this main class that there's a subclass of employee called programmer
and manager and analyst and CEO?
Do we need to know that here?
Is that necessary to be in this class?
Obviously, we need the code right.
It needs to happen somewhere like, Hey, if you have a role of programmer, then you're going to create
a program.
If you have a role, a manager, you're going to create a manager, et cetera, et cetera.
This code needs to exist.
I'm not questioning that.
I'm questioning should it exist here and is there not a better place for it to live now?
And I would argue that there is likely a better place for this code to live now.
This main class is not enhanced in any way by having this level of knowledge of these different subtypes
of the employee.
And so then a question arises, OK, well, where might be a better place to put code like this?
And I'm going to cut to the chase and say, Well, I might consider that this code might be better to
live, possibly on the employee class itself, because the employee class is the super class of all
of these subtypes.
OK.
So in a manner, it does know about these, these subtypes already sort of kind of right.
Or at least it has.
It has an actual relationship to them, whereas the main class has no real direct relationship in terms
of function to any of these guys.
It certainly has a relationship directly to employee to the extent that it knows that an employee can
give it a salary.
But these lower level subtypes are all about how the salary is is created, and that's none of the business
of this main class.
The main class couldn't care less how we get those salaries calculated.
It just knows give me a salary.
Do you follow my thinking here?
And so we want to always be asking ourselves what is the most appropriate place for certain code to
live?
And how can we get to the point that any given class has as few responsibilities as possible and ideally
just one responsibility?
OK.
So with that being said, what I propose that we try doing here is to implement a method that can take
as an input a role and returns an employee of a specific type that the main class won't even care about.
All right.
So we're going to hide these details essentially somewhere else and just spit out an employee.
And we're going to do that with a pattern called a factory method.
And we've actually used factory methods already.
So let me show you real quick an example of a factory method before we create one.
So when we have done something like number, format, dot get currency instance.
This get currency instance is a factory method.
What it is is it's basically a method that's very similar to a constructor.
OK, in that it returns an instance of something, but it does so with just a well named method.
The method is static, which means that we didn't have to first create an instance of the number format
to get to this method.
It's a static method.
In fact, I'll jump to it and we'll see that.
Let's see.
So, yeah, get currency instance.
Public static final.
OK.
And it returns something of type.
No format.
Let's see what a number format actually is, in fact.
Oh, look at that.
No format is an abstract class.
Hey, look at that.
OK.
It's an abstract class.
Looks familiar, huh?
All right.
So we're going to implement our own factory method.
Ours will take an input, though, and if you recall, actually the get currency instance has a version
that takes an input to.
We can pass in a low cal and then it will return a specific type of currency instance set up for that
locale.
All right.
So I just wanted to show you that we've already made use of factory methods.
We didn't write any, but we've used a few.
And so now we're going to make one for ourselves.
OK.
All right.
So I think the way I'm going to do this is to first go over here to the employee class, and I am going
to go ahead and create or define my static method, my factory method here.
So it's going to be public static final.
It's going to return an employee and I'm going to call it create employee and it's going to take a string.
And I don't know, I'm just going to call it employee text.
All right.
So there's the scaffolding for this method.
Now it's currently in error because I'm not actually returning anything.
I'm going to jump back over to the main class here and I'm going to just select all of this because
that is all of what I want to replace.
All right.
So I'm going to copy that.
I'm going to jump back over here to the employee class, and I'm going to just paste all of that right
in like so.
All right.
So as you can see here, we've got the people matcher here in error.
It's red.
And if we hover over it, it says nine static filled people that cannot be referenced from a static
context.
So what it's saying is we already have a people match the declared up here as a field.
However, this new create employee method can't utilize this field here, and the reason is because
the Create employee method is static and the field we have up here is not static.
And you hopefully will recall that static members and by no, I mean a method or a filled static members
cannot directly interact with non static members.
And the reason is because static members exist without an instance of the class being created.
OK?
But these non static members here can only exist when an instance of the class is created.
So it's kind of like the the static method here exists before, during and after the creation of any
class instances.
So how can it refer?
How can this static method refer to a field which itself will only exist when an instance of this class
is created?
Right?
It transcends any of these non static fields, and therefore you can't refer back to them.
All right.
So you might think, well, maybe we just make this field static, but there's a problem there.
In fact, I'll do it and we'll see.
All right.
So now we get an error that it might not have been initialized.
That's not the real issue that we're that's the problem, though.
So the real issue is that we use this people match down here in the constructor, OK?
And in order to use it in the constructor, well, in order to create it in the constructor, we need
to create the matter and tell it to match against some kind of text.
That text will be an input to the constructor itself.
OK, so in other words, in order to create this, people match, or in fact, I'm going to go ahead
and just remove the static for a moment.
While I'm explaining this in order to create the actual instance of this, people matter in a way that
we need it here.
We need this input of some text to do so and that text just as a quick, quick reminder that text would
be.
One of these lines.
OK.
Any one of these lines, that's the text that we're talking about.
OK, so that text needs to be provided in order for us to create this matter and when we're using the
or in the constructor, it's provided as input of the constructor.
OK, now it is true that the input that we're passing down here to this create employee is effectively
the same.
But if we do a little analysis here, I think we can see that there's probably at least at this time,
not a great way that I can see that we can share this matter.
Right.
So the problem is that the matter that we need to use here in the constructor can only be created at
the time when we're running the constructor because we need this input here.
OK.
And that's a slightly different timing than when we are needing this matter here for the Create employee,
even though when we do call a new programmer, we're going to be passing in this text and then creating
that matter.
But because this is static and this one isn't, the timing is just a little bit off here.
So what I would propose to do, at least for now, is to unfortunately just recreate this matter locally
inside of this create employee method.
So which means that we're going to have a little bit of duplication, maybe like one line.
All right.
So let's see how we can do this.
Now we've got this people pattern matcher here.
I think this guy can be static.
So let's see what that looks like.
We create the people pattern and we make it static and then we'll make this regex static as well.
All right.
Now, technically, now that we've made this people pattern static, we really should refer to it via
the fully qualified class name that is pretty standard approach, usually like that.
And now what I'm inclined to do is to just copy this line and do the same thing down here.
So we'll create a local people matter.
OK, let's see.
Like so and then for the matter, bit here for this input here, we'll just take this input right there.
And I think that makes it all good.
Just by doing that.
OK, now one more issue, we need to actually return something.
So I think we can just put a return statement right here.
So now the switch comes in the People Match Support Group.
The local People Match Support Group will find the role field of the input text.
Let me let me jump over here and grab a line of text, and then I'm going to come back here and I'm
going to just put a little example so that we know what we're even talking about.
OK, so here's one example of the input that could come into this, OK?
Of what that might look like.
So this pattern matcher and all of these guys here, the rig stuff is going to pass this or pass a line
of text that looks like this, and the People Match Report Group is going to find that role there.
And that's what's going to match for the switch cases here.
OK.
So if it's an analyst, it's going to create a new instance of the analyst just like this.
Now this employee text, interestingly, is going to be the same as the People Match Report Group.
That's all the same thing.
So I think we can just replace that number and just do a regular search and replace with a command are.
And I'm going to tell it, find people, Matt Group, just in this method and replace that with employee
text.
And so then I will do them one at a time because I don't want to get overzealous and leave this method.
I only want to replace these instances here.
So replace, replace, replace and replace.
All right.
And that's all there was anyway.
And then I will close that.
All right now, we'll go back over to the main method here.
And I think we don't need any of this anymore, so what I'm going to do, first of all, though, is
make a new line here just to get it out of the way.
And then I'm going to comment all of that.
And now?
We should be able to say employee does not create employee and then we can pass in.
People Matcha Diet Group, and this method now should be capable of creating the appropriate instance
of a programmer passing it into this variable here, and then we can do this little bit here and print
everything out.
So let's see if this works.
Let's just run it.
Oh, no, match found, OK.
Let's see what we messed up.
So let's see, we'll jump into.
So again, this is a stack trace.
And so going from top to bottom, what I typically will do is look for the top, most class that I wrote
or that my team wrote.
And so that wouldn't be this line or this line.
It would be this line here.
And then I'm going to click on this blue bit, which tells me Line Thirty One in the class employee
that Java.
All right.
So it found no match.
Now I want to show you something.
There's a chance that I may already have shown you this in the testing module, but I'm just letting
you know now I have not yet recorded what I'm about to show you in the testing module.
I might go back and put that in there.
I'm still kind of debating that, but I'm going to give you a little sneak preview if I hadn't already.
I want to show you a little bit of the fact that we can debug code using the ADC.
Now, I'm probably probably not going to take the time to teach you the techniques in detail, but I
just want to show you that I can do this.
So what I'm curious about is the fact that when the code got to this point, it wasn't able to find
a match, which means the capture group called Roll that matched to this string here.
And I want to know why.
And so I'm curious what people Match Support Group would even return at this point.
And maybe one of the easiest ways for me to do that are one of two things I could do a system that out
and then print out the value of people in that group.
Or I could debug this code, which is to run this code and make it make the thread stop at a certain
line and then I can inspect all of the values of variables and things.
So I'm going to debug this.
And to do that, what I think I'm going to do is I'm going to put what's called a breakpoint right here
on Line Thirty one by just clicking to the right of the line number.
And that puts a little stop sign here.
It's called a breakpoint, and then I can rerun the program in debug mode, which you've never seen
me do before.
And what that's going to cause the idea to do is to run the program.
But when it gets to line thirty one, it's going to pause and it's going to let me freeze time in the
computer and then inspect the values of variables and things.
And then I can even have the thread continue to execute one line at a time at my will so I can tell
it, OK, go to the next line and so it will go at my speed rather than computer speed.
OK, now to run this, all I need to do, I'm going to jump back over to Main.
And instead of doing a control shift, are to run like a normally would, I'm going to do a control
shift D for debug.
All right, and so it's already hit my breakpoint here.
So it's online 31, and now I can kind of see what's going on here.
So here's the people matter.
There's my regular expression.
Here's my employee text.
All right, so let's see, so the people match the.
So there's my regex to extract a role.
And I already see my problem here.
It's the same problem that I've made before, I'm going to stop my debugger.
Do you see what my problem is?
I want you to actually take a moment to look at this.
It has to do with how the regular expression engine actually works.
And you've seen me make this mistake already once before.
All right, I'm going to tell you what it is, if you didn't already get it.
So here I'm trying to extract a value from the role the named capture group called Roll.
But the problem is I did not first call people match or dot find or matches.
I need one of these two methods.
Now, the way I think I'm going to actually do this is I'm going to select that, I'm going to cut that,
then I'm going to select all of this and I'm going to surround it in.
And if.
Statement like so and then I'm going to paste that some saying if there is a match right, then go ahead
and do the rest of this.
Now that does present a problem.
If there is not a match, what should it do?
And that's actually a really good question in general, like what should happen if there is no match,
right?
So I'm going to provide an else block here.
And for right now, I'm going to just return a null.
All right, and if you noticed there was a little error there and it went away as soon as I implemented
this alternative block here, this else block because my method has to return something.
OK?
And until I implemented this statement with the return null, Java and the I.D. could clearly see that
there was a possibility that I would have an invalid method that was capable of not returning anything
at all.
And it wasn't going to let me do that.
It wouldn't have even compiled the code if I had left it that way, so I had to return something.
Now there are better things that I could do, but I haven't taught you those yet, or at least things
that I think would be better.
What I would prefer to do probably is to actually throw an exception, which is an error like basically
say, hey, if the code can't handle any of these scenarios, including the default, by the way, which
does return to null if it can't do any of these at all, then we got bigger problems and it should probably
just blow up right, like intentionally make it blow up.
But I haven't thought to that now, and I don't like introducing too many new things all at once.
So for now, we're just going to return a null.
All right.
And that seems to have made that happy.
And so now let's jump back over to the main class and run this again, not in debug mode, but just
regular mode, because I'm fairly confident that was the issue and we got 8.6 million.
Look at that.
That's looking pretty good, huh?
So I think we can now take these lines of code and nuke them, get rid of them.
There we go.
And so now this main class has gotten even smaller.
Now I see a little more duplication that I'm not crazy about.
Do you see it?
We've got duplication with this business here because these lines now exist in the employee class also.
Now we kind of need some version of some of this because that is also how we're able to loop over this
text list here.
So now I'm kind of wondering what could we do to minimize the duplication?
And I can think of at least a couple of halfway decent things we could do.
So first, let's see what we're actually using here.
So we're using the people matcher that find this matter is being created off of.
That text there, I think one thing we could do.
At least is I think we don't need these two lines here.
I think we could get this people pattern here from the employee class.
So let me show you what I mean.
If we jump over here to the employee class and jump up here, let's see.
Here's our people pattern.
It is currently protected, but it is static.
I think if we make this guy public.
Like so.
Then we can jump back over to the main class.
And I think I want to comment out these two lines here and now I want to refer to this guy.
As employee dot people pattern just like that.
Now one more thing.
Typically static members.
Are usually all capitalized.
So let's see what that might look like if we do that shift f six.
And I think what I'm going to do.
Oh, look at that.
The ID is even offering some suggestions and yeah, I think these look OK, people pat.
So not that one people pat.
There we go.
And then if we jump over here, we'll see that that was changed here as well.
And same thing here, we should probably rename these now that they are static members.
Wow.
Looked at all of those suggestions.
I think we want this last, the second to last when people rejects.
There we go.
What else did we make static?
That we had more static things than that.
I guess that's it.
OK, cool.
All right.
So we'll go back over here to main.
And I don't see that anything broke, so I think we're going to get rid of those two lines.
And now there's a little less duplication again.
And let's just run the code again, make sure everything's good.
Yeah.
And everything's still looking good there.
All right, so I think let's do one more thing now.
Now I gave this to you as an exercise to do on your own if you wanted to, but now I'm inclined to do
it with you, and that is, let's handle the case.
In fact, here, let's jump back over to the employee class.
Let's handle the case where the role doesn't match any of these, and currently we're handling that
in a default, just returning a null.
Let's go ahead and create one more subclass now.
That's just like an empty implementation of this.
OK.
And you know what, while we're at it, I'll show you another way to create this.
So in this case, this is what I'm considering to be almost kind of like a throw away implementation
of an employee.
OK.
It's not meant to be used for real business logic.
It's just here to satisfy this scenario to do better than just returning a null.
Let's just kind of return a dummy empty kind of a kind of a one.
So what we can consider doing here is defining this additional class inside of the employee class itself.
And you haven't we haven't done this before, but we can do it.
And so let's see here.
Maybe I'll do it down here at the bottom.
All right.
So what?
What we can do is we can define a class.
Now we're going to define this.